# Technical Reports 2004

## Combination Testing Strategies: A Survey

**Authors:** Mats Grindal, Jeff Offutt and Sten F. Andler

**Number:** ISE-TR-04-05

**Abstract:**

Combination strategies are test-case selection methods where test cases are identified by combining values of the different test object input parameters based on some combinatorial strategy. This survey presents 15 different combination strategies, and covers more than 30 papers that focus on one or several combination strategies. We believe this collection represents most of the existing work performed on combination strategies. This survey describes the basic algorithms used by the combination strategies. Some properties of combination strategies, including coverage criteria and theoretical bounds on the size of test suites, are also included in this description. This survey also includes a subsumption hierarchy that attempts to relate the various coverage criteria associated with the identified combination strategies. Finally, this survey contains short summaries of all the papers that cover combination strategies.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/ISE-TR-04-05.pdf)

## Integration Testing of Object-oriented Components Using FSMS: Theory and Experimental Details

**Authors:** Leonard Gallagher and Jeff Offutt

**Number:** ISE-TR-04-04

**Abstract:**

In object-oriented terms, one of the goals of integration testing is to ensure that messages from objects in one class or component are sent and received in the proper order and have the intended effect on the state of external objects that receive the messages. This research extends an existing single-class testing technique to integration testing. The previous method models the behavior of a single class as a finite state machine, transforms that representation into a data flow graph that explicitly identifies the definitions and uses of each state variable of the class, and then applies conventional data flow testing to produce test case specifications that can be used to test the class. This paper extends those ideas to inter-class testing by developing flow graphs and tests for an arbitrary number of classes and components. It introduces flexible representations for message sending and receiving among objects and allows concurrency among any or all classes and components. A second major result is the introduction of a novel approach to performing data flow analysis. Data flow graphs are stored in a relational database, and database queries are used to gather def-use information. This approach is conceptually simple, mathematically precise, quite powerful, and general enough to be used for traditional data flow analysis. This testing approach relies on finite state machines, database modeling and processing techniques, and algorithms for analysis and traversal of directed graphs. A proof-of-concept implementation is used to illustrate how the approach works on an extended example.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/ISE-TR-04-04.pdf)

## A Controlled Experimental Evaluation of Test Cases Generated from UML Diagrams

**Authors:** Aynur Abdurazik, Jeff Offutt, and Andrea Baldini

**Number:** ISE-TR-04-03

**Abstract:**

This paper presents a single project experiment on the fault revealing capabilities of test sets that are generated from UML statecharts and sequence diagrams. The results of this experiment show that the statechart test sets do better at revealing unit level faults than the sequence diagram test sets, and the sequence diagram test sets do better at revealing integration level faults than the statechart test sets. The experimental data also show that the statecharts result in more test cases than the sequence diagrams. The experiment showed that UML diagrams can be used in generating test data systematically, and different UML diagrams can play different roles in testing.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/ISE-TR-04-03.pdf)

## A Framework for Dynamic Semantic Web Services Management

**Authors:** Randy Howard and Larry Kerschberg

**Number:** ISE-TR-04-02

**Abstract:**

The concept of Web services as a means of dynamically discovering, negotiating, composing, executing and managing services to materialize enterprise-scale workflow is an active research topic. However its realization has thus far been elusive. Existing approaches involve many disparate concepts, frameworks and technologies. What is needed is a comprehensive and overarching framework that handles the processing and workflow requirements of Virtual Enterprises, maps them to a collection of service-oriented tasks, dynamically configures these tasks from available services, and manages the choreography and execution of these services. The goal is to add semantics to Web services to endow them with capabilities currently lacking in the literature, but necessary for their successful deployment in future systems. This paper introduces such a framework, called the Knowledge-based Dynamic Semantic Web Services (KDSWS) Framework, that addresses in an integrated end-to-end manner, the life-cycle of activities involved in preparing, publishing, requesting, discovering, selecting, configuring, deploying, and delivering Semantic Web Services. In particular, the following issues are addressed: 1) semantic specification of services capabilities including quality of service, trust, and security; 2) transaction control and workflow management; and 3) resource management, interoperation and evolution of the Virtual Enterprise. Two models and their associated languages are introduced to specify the features for these enhanced services: 1) the KDSWS Meta-Model, and 2) the KDSWS Process Language. Both are based on the Knowledge/Data Model. This integrated and comprehensive approach provides a unified end-to-end approach to enable dynamically-composable, semantically-rich, service-oriented systems of Web services.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/ISE-TR-04-02.pdf)

## Modeling and Testing of Dynamic Aspects of Web Applications

**Authors:** Ye Wu, Jeff Offutt and Xiaochen Du

**Number:** ISE-TR-04-01

**Abstract:**

Web software applications have become complex, sophisticated programs that are based on novel computing technologies. Although powerful, these technologies bring new challenges to developers and testers. Checking static HTML links is no longer suffcient; Web applications must be evaluated as complex software products. This paper focuses on two unique aspects of Web applications, an extremely loose form of coupling that features dynamic integration and the ability that users have to directly change the potential flow of execution. Taken together, these allow the control flow to vary with each execution, and means the possible control flows cannot be determined statically. Thus we cannot perform standard analysis techniques that are fundamental to many software engineering activities. This paper presents a new theoretical model of new couplings and the dynamic flow of control of Web applications. This model is based on atomic sections, which allow tools to build the equivalent of a control flow graph for Web applications. The model is used to propose new test criteria for Web applications, and results are shown from a case study on a moderate-size application.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/ISE-TR-04-01.pdf)

## A New Algorithm for Reachability Testing of Concurrent Programs

**Authors:** Jeff Lei and Richard Carver

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2004-4

**Abstract:**

Concurrent programs exhibit non-deterministic behavior,
which makes them difficult to test. One approach to testing
concurrent programs, called reachability testing, generates
test sequences automatically, and on-the-fly, without
constructing any static models. This approach guarantees
that every partially-ordered synchronization sequence of a
program with a given input will be exercised exactly once.
Unfortunately, in order to make this guarantee all existing
reachability testing algorithms need to save and search
through the history of test sequences that have already been
exercised, which is impractical for many applications. In
this paper, we present a new reachability testing algorithm
that does not save the history of test sequences. This new
algorithm guarantees that every partially-ordered
synchronization sequence is exercised at least once for an
arbitrary program and exactly once for a program that
satisfies certain conditions. We also describe a reachability
testing tool called RichTest. Our empirical studies with
RichTest indicate that our new algorithm exercises every
synchronization sequence exactly once for many
applications.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/GMU-CS-TR-2004-4.pdf)

## Experiments in Building Recognition

**Authors:** Wei Zhang and Jana Kosecka

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2004-3

**Abstract:**

In this report we study the problem of building recognition. Given a database of building images, we are interested in classifying a novel view of a building by finding
the closest match from the database. We examine the
efficacy of local scale-invariant features and their associated descriptors as representations of building appearance and use a simple voting scheme in the recognition
phase.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/GMU-CS-TR-2004-3.pdf)

## Location Recognition, Global Localization and Relative Positioning Based on Scale-Invariant Keypoints

**Authors:** Jana Kosecka and Xialong Yang

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2004-2

**Abstract:**

The localization capability of a mobile robot is central to
basic navigation and map building tasks. We describe a
probabilistic environment model which facilitates global
localization scheme by means of location recognition.
In the exploration stage the environment is partitioned
into a class of locations, each characterized by a set
of scale-invariant keypoints. The descriptors associated
with these keypoints can be robustly matched despite
changes in contrast, scale and viewpoint. We demonstrate the efficacy of these features for location recognition, where given a new view the most likely location
from which this view came is determined. The misclassifications due to dynamic changes in the environment
or inherent appearance ambiguities are overcome by exploiting neighborhood relationships captured by a Hidden Markov Model. We report the recognition performance of this approach on an indoor environment consisting of eighteen locations and discuss the suitability
of this approach for a more general class of recognition
problems. Once the most likely location has been determined we show how to compute the relative pose between the representative view and the current view.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/GMU-CS-TR-2004-2.pdf)

## Tunably Decentralized Algorithms for Cooperative Target Observation

**Authors:** Sean Luke and Keith Sullivan and Gabriel Catalin Balan and Liviu Panait

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2004-1

**Abstract:**

Multi-agent problem domains may require distributed algorithms for a variety of reasons: local sensors, limitations of communication, and availability of distributed computational resources. In the absence of these constraints, centralized algorithms are often more efficient, simply because they are able to take advantage of more information. We introduce a variant of the cooperative target observation domain which is free of such constraints. We propose two algorithms, inspired by K-means clustering and hill-climbing respectively, which are scalable in degree of decentralization. Neither algorithm consistenly outperforms the other across over all problem domain settings. Surprisingly, we find that hill-climbing is sensitive to degree of decentralization, while K-means is not. We also experiment with a combination of the two algorithms which draws strength from each.

[PDF](../pdfs/2004/GMU-CS-TR-2004-1.pdf)

