# Technical Reports 2008

## A Simple Proof of the 3-Competitiveness of the Greedy Algorithm for Scheduling Weighted Packets

**Authors:** F. Li

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2008-4

**Abstract:**

We provide a simplified proof of the 3-competitiveness of the greedy
algorithm for scheduling weighted packets in the multi-FIFO buffer
model. Azar and Richter provided a proof using the zero-one principle
(Azar and Richter, STOC 2004). We use a different approach and we hope
our approach can lead to an improved FIFO buffering algorithm.

[PDF](../pdfs/2008/GMU-CS-TR-2008-4.pdf)

## Life After Self-Healing:
Assessing Post-Repair Program Behavior

**Authors:** Michael E. Locasto and Angelos Stavrou and
Gabriela F. Cretu

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2008-3

**Abstract:**

One promising technique for defending software systems against
vulnerabilities involves the use of self-healing.  Such efforts,
however, carry a great deal of risk because they largely bypass the
cycle of human-driven patching and testing used to vet both vendor and
internally developed patches.  In particular, it is difficult to
predict if a repair will keep the behavior of the system consistent
with "normal" behavior.  Assuring that post-repair behavior does not
deviate from normal behavior is a major challenge to which no
satisfactory solutions exist.  We investigate the feasibility of
automatically measuring behavioral deviations in software that has
undergone a self-healing repair.  We provide a first examination of
the problem of assessing a repair's impact on execution behavior, and
we define a model for representing post-repair behavior using
machine-level intraprocedural control flow.  In essence, we advocate
performing anomaly detection on an application's execution

[PDF](../pdfs/2008/GMU-CS-TR-2008-3.pdf)

## Long-term Fairness with
Bounded Worst-Case Losses

**Authors:** Gabriel Balan and Dana Richards and Sean Luke

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2008-2

**Abstract:**

How does one repeatedly choose actions so as to be fairest to the
multiple beneficiaries of those actions?  We examine approaches to
discovering sequences of actions for which the worst-off beneficiaries
are treated maximally well, then secondarily the second-worst-off, and
so on.  We formulate the problem for the situation where the sequence
of action choices continues forever; this problem may be reduced to a
set of linear programs.  We then extend the problem to situations
where the game ends at some unknown finite time in the future.  We
demonstrate that an optimal solution is NP-hard, and present two good
approximation algorithms.

[PDF](../pdfs/2008/GMU-CS-TR-2008-2.pdf)

## Algorithms for
Leximin-Optimal Fair Policies in Repeated Games

**Authors:** Gabriel Balan and Dana Richards and Sean Luke

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2008-1

**Abstract:**

Solutions to non-cooperative multiagent systems often require
achieving a joint policy which is as fair to all parties as possible.
There are a variety of methods for determining the fairest such joint
policy.  One approach,

[PDF](../pdfs/2008/GMU-CS-TR-2008-1.pdf)

## How to Make a Technical Report (Rev. 2)

**Authors:** Sean Luke

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2008-0

**Abstract:**

This document describes the preferred formatting of technical reports
and submission guidelines.  This document itself is formatted
according to the preferred formatting rules.

[PDF](../pdfs/2008/GMU-CS-TR-2008-0.pdf)

