# Technical Reports 2009

## Towards Generalized Trust in Smart Spaces

**Authors:** Dalal A. Al-Arayed and João P. Sousa

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-8

**Abstract:**

Existing work in trust management does not satisfactorily provide a
combination of functionality and generality. A model that sufficiently
addresses the aspects of trust management and is general enough to be
applicable in multiple problem scenarios is needed. This paper presents a base
trust model that can be used in multiple problem scenarios (content
management, service provision, and routing). In addition, smart spaces
introduce new issues that are not addressed sufficiently by the available
trust management models. The base trust model is designed to be simple to
facilitate its enrichment to accommodate the additional requirements of Smart
Spaces in the future.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-8.pdf)

## Digging Digg: : Comment Mining, Popularity Prediction, and Social Network Analysis

**Authors:** Salman Jamali and Huzefa Rangwala

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-7

**Abstract:**

Using comment information available from Digg we define a co-participation
network between users. We focus on the analysis of this implicit network, and
study the behavioral characteristics of users. Using an entropy measure, we
infer that users at Digg are not highly focused and participate across a wide
range of topics. We also use the comment data and social network derived
features to predict the popularity of online content linked at Digg using a
classification and regression framework. We show promising results for
predicting the popularity scores even after limiting our feature extraction to
the first few hours of comment activity that follows a Digg submission.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-7.pdf)

## Towards a Universal Text Classifier: Transfer Learning using Encyclopedic Knowledge

**Authors:** Pu Wang and Carlotta Domeniconi and Jian Hu

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-6

**Abstract:**

Document classification is a key task for many text mining
applications. However, traditional text classification requires labeled data
to construct reliable and accurate classifiers. Unfortunately, labeled data
are seldom available, and often too expensive to obtain. In this work, we
propose a universal text classifier, which does not require any labeled
training document. Our approach simulates the capability of people to classify
documents based on background knowledge. As such, we build a classifier that
can effectively group documents based on their content, under the guidance of
few words, which we call discriminant words, describing the classes of
interest. Background knowledge is modeled using encyclopedic knowledge, namely
Wikipedia. Wikipedia's articles related to the specific problem domain at hand
are selected, and used during the learning process for predicting labels of
test documents. The universal text classifier can also be used to perform
document retrieval, in which the pool of test documents may or may not be
relevant to the topics of interest for the user. In our experiments with real
data we test the feasibility of our approach for both the classification and
retrieval tasks. The results demonstrate the advantage of incorporating
background knowledge through Wikipedia, and the effectiveness of modeling such
knowledge via probabilistic topic modeling. The accuracy achieved by the
universal text classifier is comparable to that of a supervised learning
technique for transfer learning.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-6.pdf)

## Behavior-Based Motion Planning for Group Control

**Authors:** Christopher Vo and Joseph F. Harrison and Jyh-Ming Lien

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-5

**Abstract:**

Despite the large body of work in both motion planning and multi-agent
simulation, little work has focused on the problem of planning motion for
groups of robots using external "controller" agents. We call this problem the
group control problem. This problem is complex because it is highly
underactuated, dynamic, and requires multi-agent cooperation.  In this paper,
we present a variety of new motion planning algorithms based on ESt, RRT, and
PRM methods for shepherds to guide flocks of robots through obstacle-filled
environments. We show using simulation on several environments that under
certain circumstances, motion planning can find paths that are too complicated
for naive "simulation only" approaches. However, inconsistent results indicate
that this problem is still in need of additional study.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-5.pdf)

## A Control Architecture for Autonomous Mobile Robotics

**Authors:** Randall Steck

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-4

**Abstract:**

The field of mobile robotics is on the forefront of robotics research
around the world.  Control architectures for complex autonomous mobile
robots have largely settled on hybrid architectures for their
suitability at dealing with the opposing forces of planning and
reactivity.  We present a general, heterogeneous 3-Tier hybrid
architecture for control of an autonomous mobile robot and discuss an
implementation in the domain of campus navigation.  The architecture
features a useful organization structure for high-level skills and
offers flexible construction options for low-level behavior
hierarchies.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-4.pdf)

## Towards Session-aware RBAC Administration and Enforcement with XACML

**Authors:** Min Xu and Duminda Wijesekera and Xinwen Zhang and Deshan Cooray

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-3

**Abstract:**

An administrative role-based access control (ARBAC) model specifies
administrative policies over a role-based access control (RBAC)
system, where an administrative permission may change an RBAC policy
by updating permissions assigned to roles, or assigning/revoking users
to/from roles. Consequently, enforcing ARBAC policies over an active
access controller while some users are using protected resources would
result in conflicts: a policy may be in effect in the RBAC system
while being updated by an ARBAC operation. Towards solving this
concurrency problem, we propose a session-aware administrative model
for RBAC. We show how the concurrency problem can be resolved by
enhancing the eXtensible Access Control Markup Language (XACML)
reference implementation.  In order to do so, we develop an
XACML-ARBAC profile to specify ARBAC policies, and enforce these
polices by building an ARBAC enforcement module and a session
administrative module. The former synchronizes with the evaluation of
access control requests. The latter revokes conflicting ongoing user
sessions immediately prior to enforcing administrative
operations. Experimental shows reasonable performance characteristics
of our initial enhancement to Sun's reference implementation

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-3.pdf)

## Geometry-based Computation of Symmetric Homo-oligomeric Protein Complexes

**Authors:** Christopher Miles and Brian Olson and Amarda Shehu

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-2

**Abstract:**

The need to engineer novel therapeutics and functional materials is
driving the in-silico design of molecular complexes. This paper
proposes a method to compute symmetric homo-oligomeric protein
complexes when the structure of the replicated protein monomer is
known and rigid.  The relationship between the structure of a protein
and its biological function brings the in-silico determination of
protein structures associated with functional states to the forefront
of computational biology. While protein complexes, arising from
associations of protein monomers, are pervasive in every genome,
determination of their structures remains challenging. Given the
difficulty in computing structures of a protein monomer, computing
arrangements of monomers in a complex is mainly limited to dimers. A
growth in the number of protein complexes studied in wet labs is
allowing classification of their structures. A recent database shows
that most naturally-occurring protein complexes are symmetric
homo-oligomers. The method presented here exploits this database to
propose structures of symmetric homo-oligomers that can accommodate
spatial replications of a given protein monomer. The method searches
the database for documented structures of symmetric homo-oligomers
where the replicated monomer has a geometrically-similar structure to
that of the input protein monomer. The proposed method is a first step
towards the in-silico design of novel protein complexes that upon
further refinement and characterization can serve as molecular
machines or fundamental units in therapeutics or functional materials.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-2.pdf)

## Scheduling Weighted Packets with Deadlines Over a Fading Channel

**Authors:** Fei Li and Zhi Zhang

**Number:** GMU-CS-TR-2009-1

**Abstract:**

We consider scheduling weighted packets with time constraints over a
fading channel. Packets arrive at the transmitter in an online
manner. Each packet has a value and a hard deadline by which it should
be sent. The fade state of the channel determines the throughput
obtained per unit of time and the channel's quality may change over
time. In this paper, we design both offline and online algorithms to
maximize weighted throughput, which is defined as the total value of
the packets sent by their respective deadlines. We first present
polynomial-time exact offline algorithms for this problem. Then, we
present online algorithms and their competitive analysis as well as
the lower bounds of competitive ratios. Our work is the first one
addressing weighted throughput for this important problem in the areas
of information theory and communications.

[PDF](../pdfs/2009/GMU-CS-TR-2009-1.pdf)

